hi my name is Michel Zen I'm going to be
instructing you on 10 different suture
techniques as well as a stapling
technique for skin closure now if you're
going to be good at suturing you need to
practice and here at Duke we rely on
cadaveric material and animal material
for practicing and that's not really
very cost effective and not very
practical if you want to practice
anywhere you want I'm going to be
instructing you on vadas new suture
skills simulator which is a simulation
device I helped to develop it's
incredibly lifelike and really feels
like you're operating and suturing
unnormal tissue I certainly would like
to thank data for supporting this video
I think this suture product that they
have made has been a long time coming
it's incredibly realistic compact so you
can take it wherever you want to go and
it really is a complete solution for
anybody who wants to practice suturing
all right before we get started with
teaching different types of suturing I
want to teach how to tie the knot the
simplest way to do this is with an
instrument type you simply pass whatever
suture we're doing into the skin when
you're ready to tie it what I'd like you
to do is pull the suture all the way
through but leave a small short tail
about a quarter of an inch half inch is
plenty so you'll have a short end and a
long end and we're going to keep this
pretty simple you take your needle
driver and you're just going to simply
place it between the two take the long
end and then wrap it you want to wrap it
twice and then grab the short end and
then pull the short end across the wound
to the other side and what that does is
it locks the wound down to you it sits
there and doesn't move for the next
throw I'm going to wrap the needle
driver again and this time just wrap it
once I'm going to grab the short end and
pull it across but don't pull up on it
you just want to tie it down till it
gets down to the knot and then lock it
down again and simply peple your needle
driver between the two again wrap it
with the long side grab the short side
and pull it across you're doing the same
thing every time the first time you're
wrapping it twice and that's called a
surgeon's knot and that will lock it in
place
because we don't want is you don't want
to not to be loose you want your skin
well approximated so we call that an
aeronaut when it's not approximated so
just to review one time once there
suture is placed leave a short tail
wrapped in you know driver twice pull
the short end to the other side locking
it and don't pull up on it wrap just
once around kneel driver pull it back to
the other side lock it down and now for
your next throw you can go ahead and
wrap it once again imports to the other
side now some absorbable suture you may
need to do it four times but three times
for permanent suture like the suture
comes in your kit is fine
so the first suture I want to teach you
is a simple suture simple because
there's really only one part to it
you're simply gonna put the needle in on
one side and then put it through on the
other side so it's important to hold the
needle in the middle enter at 90 degrees
exit and then try to enter again so you
can come into the tissue and come up at
90 degrees having it 90 degrees on both
sides when you tie it or approximate the
skin beautifully so that's what I like
to do it in two and not try to run
needle all the way across do the
instrument tie as I've already taught
you and see how nicely the skin is
approximated you can see as you start
doing this more and more you'll just get
faster and faster it is an acquired
skill so the key enter it 90 degrees
sometimes you can keep it in two but you
push the skin just to make sure you're
getting through it at 90 degrees and
again that's going to help you to
re-approach summate your skin that
you'll decide how far apart each stitch
needs to be the closer they are together
the more stitching you're going to be
doing and then more scar you may have
some tissues already just about
approximated so you don't need that many
I'm going to show you a simple buried
suture these are the sutures that we use
when we're trying to really the skin
usually with absorbable suture and then
either gluing or steroid stripping we're
not doing a skin layer so the key here
is you want to get some of the deeper
tissues and here you see in the model we
can get some of the deeper dermis and
there's actually a little piece of mesh
and that deep dermis we want to grab
that deeper stuff come out superficially
so we're starting deep and then we enter
superficially an end deep so both
threads of the suture are now deep and
what that's going to do when we tie this
now is it's going to pull everything
together but the knot itself is actually
going to be underneath and this is
important because we want to take all
the tension off the skin whether we're
steri-strip in it or whether we're just
closing it with another suture and we
don't want these little ends of the
suture to poke up to the skin we call
that spitting so you need to get it get
deep grab some of that deep dermis which
in this case is that little piece of
mesh and make sure you're entering the
same place where you exited on the other
side so just as superficial as you are
in one side you must be superficial on
the other side or else your skin edge
will be uneven
notice also when I'm pulling oftentimes
I'll pull it along the wound it allows
you to get the tie all the way into the
wound and it's not being prevented by
the skin edges so this is a simple very
- suture is something that we use all
the time in plastic surgery
next I'm going to show you a little more
complex which is a vertical mattress
suture again we're going to go ahead and
open up the device that comes with your
suture pad that helps to put tension on
the skin and when we go ahead and make a
cut here what happens is the skin gapes
open in order to take tension off that
sometimes a simple suture will just pull
through and we'll do a vertical mattress
which some people call the far far near
near so notice I've got into the skin
along the bottom of skin and gone far
away and now I turn the needle around
and come back and do nearer and nearer
to the incision what this does is going
to pull the tissue between each of those
throws together as opposed to just
pulling the edges of the skin together
and again you do your instrument tie and
generally I'll pull it tight just so I
see the skin kissing and this is a more
secure closure because now what you're
doing is you're actually grabbing a
bunch of tissue and a bunch of tissue
and it's pulling the skin edges together
but there's no actual stitch in the
actual edge of the skin so again deep
run along the bottom of the dermis run
along the bottom of the dermis and come
out about the same distance on both
sides turn the needle around and now you
want to get pretty close to the edge of
the skin because it's the distance
between those two bites it gives you
your strength to the same on both sides
and then again go ahead and do your
instrument time so this is important
when we are doing different types of
deeper closures and certainly wounds
that are traumatic and maybe have a
Deema and are swollen and under a lot of
tension
now this type of suture is going to be
part of your armamentarium now sometimes
you can change it to a horizontal
position so these are all in the same
line and hence the term vertical now
we're going to do a horizontal mattress
here the idea is not to go near near or
far far take the same size bite each
time but what you're going to do is it's
effectively two simple sutures in one
suture so what you'll do is you'll enter
the skin now as if you would for a
simple suture and instead of tying this
as a simple suture turn your needle
around move the same distance you would
for your simple suture and enter it the
same way almost like you're doing a
simple suture on the other side so this
is still a mattress suture because
there's two different rows of suturing
but now instead of in a vertical line
it's in a horizontal line and it's
important that you pull together again
only to the edges kiss each other
so it has the advantage of being faster
than two simple sutures and you know
sometimes in some situations you want to
pull tissue to tissue together just like
with a vertical vertical is nicer
because it does Evert the skin edges but
in a case like this where you version is
not a problem simply doing a horizontal
mattress will help you
and sometimes in cosmetic surgery we
don't want any suture marks on one side
and when you come to the second side
here what you would do is take the first
half of your simple and then just take
simply a dermal bite on the opposite
side and then come back and come through
the skin again and when you tie it down
it will simply pull the dermis toward it
and we often do that in cosmetic surgery
in areas of hair bearing so this is good
again for tension it's good when the
skin doesn't need inversion
another variant of the horizontal
matches is called a figure-of-eight
suture will often use this in general
surgery where we have big ones that are
gaping apart or fashion we need strength
it's placed in the same way we do simple
suturing and simple suturing except this
time rather than turning the needle
around we simply just move along and
take another simple bite and simple bite
so same distance same spread except now
because we didn't turn the needle around
we have suture crossing in the middle
and as we tie it you can see it looks
like 1/8 hence the term figure of 8 and
a figure of 8 is just as strong as a
horizontal mattress would be but it's
faster and I would say cosmetically the
scar would not be as good so it's good
for fashion and deep areas
next simple running suture now we're
moving along you're becoming a
proficient suture with your simple
sutures you could just put a series of
sutures that are simple sutures and
you'll close a one much faster I liken
this to like a sewing machine it you
want to take the exact same bite each
time and you want to advance the same
amount each time and that's how you get
incision a closure to look pretty so
this is just a simple suture you'll tie
your first one with your instrument I
keep the length of your suture you know
long enough for the job but not so long
that your hands are going all over the
place and now we're going to do is
reload and we're going to move along the
same distance each time and even though
when we tie the stitch it looks like
it's closer to the skin you know we need
to enter the skin exactly the same place
so here it's just a few millimeters on
each side move along the same distance
here a few millimeters take the same
distance bite on each side and again as
you see as you start to get better and
better you can just go faster and faster
and what's going to look nice is that
you've done it exactly the same way each
time now because we're going straight
across underneath the skin outside we're
going to see a slanted suture like a
baseball we sometimes call this a
baseball stitch if you want to get
really fancy when you're passing your
needle deep to the skin if you pass it
on a diagonal your stitches will look
like they're straight across so there
are different ways to do it and
different ways on how you want it to
look this is a suture that we do use all
the time because it's fast and efficient
one variant of this is what's called the
simple running locking suture sometimes
you are closing the wound quickly an
example would be maybe a big scalp wound
where it's bleeding and you just need to
get it closed and it's hard because it's
gaping open a little bit as you start to
tie and tie your suture it's not staying
in place sometimes you can have an
assistant hold that for you but when
you're by yourself especially what you
can do is you can lock the stitch each
time and what that mean by that is you
take your simple bite and now before you
pull it completely through you take the
needle and you pass it through the loop
so now it's like a little pulley closed
down and it locks it down and then you
go ahead take your net rejection make
sure it comes back through the loop and
so what you see here is that you can a
pretty long suture line and not worry
about it untying behind you as you go
again probably adds more suture to the
skin therefore it's not as good
necessarily for cosmesis but certainly
for something like bleeding like in a
scalp wound or when were you just trying
to get something close quickly works
perfectly and I always end these types
of running sutures just by grabbing the
loop and then doing your instrument tie
once again and two times around will
lock it if you're having problems
without locking you can even wrap it
three times around the needle driver and
that really holds it in place only one
time around for each subsequent
now we're getting to answer your closes
some particular closure is really
without alcohol cosmetic closure the
idea here is to close the skin and not
have any suture in the wound at all
so we'll go ahead and apply the data
device to the pad so it spreads it apart
for us or gives us a little bit of
spread and now we're going to do is run
a stitch under the skin and this can be
done either with permanent suture or
absorbable suture and I'll demonstrate
here with permanent suture so I'll enter
from outside and entered just at the
level of the deep dermis and the key
here now is to take horizontal bites in
that deep dermis exactly the same on
both sides
and advance as you go and what you see
is I'm pulling a suture across to show
where the next stitch should be so I
make sure there's no bunching but what
you can find over time is that it really
doesn't matter how much you advance as
long as you're doing the same each time
I'll tell you if you're hoping to pull
this stitch out later like maybe after a
week and you'd want to advance more each
time if you know it's a permanent suture
it's going to stay in there like
something absorbable maybe where you're
not going to have to remove it then you
want to almost go back to the last
stitch each time so there are different
variants but the key is do the same
thing each time now the skin is
beautifully opposed and on this I
probably would still put steri-strips or
put some skin glue but it's really the
suture that's holding everything
together
one of the advantages of the data pad is
that all the layers of closure are
represented so we not only have the skin
and dermis we also have some fat which
feels very lifelike and then deeper we
see the white what I will call fashio or
the lining of the muscle and below is
some red which represents muscle
generally the strength of closure
especially in deeper wound is going to
be that deeper white fashio so if we
just close the skin here there almost
would be this potential space underneath
where fluid could collect or the skin
would have so much tension on it
alternately would pull apart this is
especially true over joints where you're
bending the arm or bending the knee and
you might pull things apart so what
we'll do here is we'll first close the
fashio
because fascia is generally so deep to
the skin
I usually don't bury the knot you
certainly could but you don't have to so
for simplicity sake I just do simple
suture here
and some in some situations we might use
a permanent suture here certainly you
can use absorbable as well so it's kind
of surgeons choice and remember you're
pretty deep here so you're going to want
to not only lock the nut but then when
you're pulling things down it's almost
easier to pull it along the wound itself
otherwise the skin may prevent you from
time all the way down so we're going to
put a couple of interrupted simple
stitches here to close the fashion and
again you sort of put a stitch in see
what it does put a stitch and see what
it does you know that's the way that we
do it in surgery sometimes you need a
lot of stitches sometimes you don't
stitches or foreign body so potentially
if you worry about infection and things
like that you use an absorbable suture
so it's not going to hang around or at
least less permanent suture if you're
not is not locking remember you can
always throw an extra throw like three
throws or you can just do what I just
did which is sort of lock it down by
pulling on it once the fash is closed
you kind of have a decision to make you
can go right to the dermis or you can
look for in some parts of the body
there's what's called Scarpas fashion so
you could potentially close another
layer here I'm going to close the deep
it's going to include some of that fatty
tissue which would theoretically be like
a scar pistache but the dermis is the
strength here again this is a buried nut
because this is the next layer of
closure so we started deep and went
superficial and superficial and deep you
can see there is some tension on this
wound and I think that's what I like
about this demonstration and this type
of model is that it is realistic and you
can set this tension as much as you want
and early on you'll be able to close the
ones without tension pretty well and as
you start moving along you want to put
more and more tension on and see how
good your knots are and how good your
suturing is another word of advice I
would give you is notice how I'm going
to the ends first the ends have the
least amount of tension the middle of
the wound gates open the most and I
think most of the time people want to
close the middle first if you sort of
sneak up on it though and start closing
the ends first you'll take attention off
so that by the time you get to that
middle stitch it'll have the least
amount of tension on it so here we have
two and I'm going to put one more notice
I'm grabbing deep dermis starting deep
coming superficial and I'll grab a right
above the dermis on the other side come
out the same distance and we might tie
together then what we're doing is
getting these skin edges closer together
and getting them closer together at
about the same level so that when we're
finally closed and the skin is closed we
have a beautiful closure okay so now we
have the dermis closed now we're going
to have our skin closure it is your
closure of choice you can do a running
suture you can do interrupted this will
totally be up to you here because it's a
complex closure and I believe it's under
a lot of tension I'm using the vertical
mattress I told you this is probably the
best suture for wounds are difficult to
close and under a lot of tension because
you're grabbing a lot of tissue - a lot
of tissue and because you're starting
far away and because your second bite is
closed what that does when you tie it it
literally averts the wounds and so the
skin edges pout out which gives you
proper healing if you don't place your
sutures properly the skin can turn in
you know epidermis the outer layer of
skin touching epidermis is not going to
heal so you'll take your stitches out
your wound will kind of break open
you'll wonder why it's because you
didn't approximate your edges something
we do fairly often in the operating room
is skin stapling it seems like it's a
fairly simple thing to do but what I
would tell you is approximation of the
skin is key oftentimes I'll use either
one or two pickups to position the skin
properly averting it bringing it
together and then taking a stapling
device similar to the one that comes
with your kit simply Center the device
on the skin staple it down it literally
will grab the edges and then turn them
in which help sticky vert their edges
which again is very helpful so stapling
is nice because it's fast and will turn
the edges out so here I'm approximating
the skin Evert getting a close together
so if the skin edges are touching and
then placing the stapler and you don't
need necessarily to push down very hard
I think it's very controlled motion is
key and when you're stapling the end of
the stapler is not really moving at all
try to grab it near the end of the
stapler you'll have more sort of torque
advantage and again just like simple
sutures you have to decide how many
staples you need and each wound what
each wound needs for approximation in a
case like this if this were complex moon
we have multiple layers of closure
staple might be nice because I'm going
to leave these staples in for a few
weeks and gently wear sutures can get
infected metal staples do not how do we
take these out this is a a staple
remover basically it'll grab the staple
which has turned its edges into to
approximately will open the edges of the
staple and then it will straighten them
so they pull right out and so here you
see as we push down on the staple
remover it unbend those ends of the
staple it aligns them so now they become
straight and then this staple will
literally simply lift out of the wound
very simply so we push down spreads it
and as it straightens it it just pop
straight up if you don't have a staple
remover you can also use a needle driver
or a clamp and place it under the staple
and just spread and basically spreading
is doing the same thing its
straightening out this is much less
painful for your patient though if you
can use one of these devices because as
I said it straightens everything out and
simply pulls out and there's no pulling
sometimes if the bending apparatus
doesn't really straighten them
completely you can just as you're
stapling Rockit gently and here's an
example with just a needle driver we're
literally just spreads you're trying to
open those times and as it does it will
come out if you're going to do this it's
usually better to do this on a patient
is asleep because it can hurt to remove
staples this way and again sometimes you
do need to kind of rock from side to
side if just in case one side is not
completely open well that concludes this
tutorial I hope you certainly have
learned a lot about suturing if you want
to learn more about this suture pad or
get your own Vatel 3500 click the link
below
you
[Music]